## Data URI scheme
1. Data URIs, URLs prefixed with the data: scheme, allow content creators to embed small files inline in documents. The data URI scheme is a uniform resource identifier (URI) scheme that provides a way to include data in-line in web pages as if they were external resources. It is a form of file literal or here document. This technique allows normally separate elements such as images and style sheets to be fetched in a single Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) request, which may be more efficient than multiple HTTP requests. As of 2015, data URIs are fully supported by most major browsers, and partially supported in Internet Explorer and Microsoft Edge.
2. The syntax of data URIs was defined in Request for Comments (RFC) 2397, published in August 1998, and follows the URI scheme syntax. A data URI consists of: `data:[<media type>][;base64],<data>`
> The scheme, data. It is followed by a colon (:).
> An optional media type. The mediatype is a MIME type string, such as `'image/jpeg'` for a JPEG image file. If omitted, defaults to `text/plain;charset=US-ASCII` . If the data is textual, you can simply embed the text (using the appropriate entities or escapes based on the enclosing document's type). Otherwise, you can specify base64 to embed base64-encoded binary data. The media type part may include one or more parameters, in the format attribute=value, separated by semicolons (;) . A common media type parameter is charset, specifying the character set of the media type, where the value is from the IANA list of character set names.[4] If one is not specified, the media type of the data URI is assumed to be text/plain;charset=US-ASCII.
> An optional base64 extension base64, separated from the preceding part by a semicolon. When present, this indicates that the data content of the URI is binary data, encoded in ASCII format using the Base64 scheme for binary-to-text encoding. The base64 extension is distinguished from any media type parameters by virtue of not having a =value component and by coming after any media type parameters.
> The data, separated from the preceding part by a comma (,). The data is a sequence of zero or more octets represented as characters. The comma is required in a data URI, even when the data part has zero length. The characters permitted within the data part include ASCII upper and lowercase letters, digits, and many ASCII punctuation and special characters. Note that this may include characters, such as colon, semicolon, and comma which are delimiters in the URI components preceding the data part. Other octets must be percent-encoded. If the data is Base64-encoded, then the data part may contain only valid Base64 characters.[5] Note that Base64-encoded data: URIs use the standard Base64 character set (with '+' and '/' as characters 62 and 63) rather than the so-called "URL-safe Base64" character set.
3. The minimal data URI is `data:,` , consisting of the scheme, no media-type, and zero-length data.
4. [HTML] In actual URIs, including data URIs, control characters (ASCII 0 to 31, and 127) and spaces (ASCII 32) are "excluded characters". This means that whitespace characters are not permitted in data URIs. However, in the context of HTML 4 and HTML 5, linefeeds within an element attribute value (such as the "src" above) are ignored. So the data URI above would be processed ignoring the linefeeds, giving the correct result. But note that this is an HTML feature, not a data URI feature, and in other contexts, it is not possible to rely on whitespace within the URI being ignored.
5. [CSS] the `\ + <linefeed>` line terminators are a feature of CSS, indicating continuation on the next line. These would be removed by the CSS stylesheet processor, and the data URI would be reconstituted without whitespace, making it correct, since whitespace is not allowed within the data component of a data: URI.
6. [JavaScript] encodeURIComponent -> Escape for URL formatting